Hey, guys, what's up?
This is American, and I welcome you to another Dooralong discourse on Ruby and from this jury.
And we are going to start on whether buildOn functions that can be applied on hashas.
The first function we are going to cover starting on from this jury is going to be the fetch method
on a hash.
So what this FEG function is basically is that it is a hash GLAST method which returns a value from
the hash for the given key.
With no other arguments, it will raise a key error exception.
Now the syntax for this function is very simple.
You have to write and hash, not fetch.
And in the argument you have to write in the hash value what you want to fetch.
So let's see an example and I guess you will understand much more what I'm saying right now.
All right, so in a previous story, what you have seen is that we have used a simple duen statement
and used it each with that to fetch the values from the hash function.
Now, in this one, we are going to do that, that we are going to be using the PFEG function to actually
fetch the values from the hash.
So let's say you have got multiple hash values and you have declared multiple in which you have got
a single variable that is repeating again and again now how to access the value and which value is going
to be accessed when you use the fetch function on a certain variable.
So let's say you have three variables in which you have got hashes.
So let's say you have got eight and that you have got, let's say, two values.
The first one is a.
And that is referring to, let's say Hundert, then you have got another value that is let's say the
key is the and the value for that is let's say two hundred.
Not a plus sign Nick would do sign over here.
And let's say you have got one more hash with a variable beep and that you have got, let's say, one
value that is easy and that is, let's say equal to, again, Hundert.
And the third variable that is having a hash is, let's see, and that is also going to have certain
value.
Let's say this has three values.
The first one is a and as usual, it's going to equal to the value hundert.
Then you have got be.
That is going to equal to two hundred and then you have, let's say, got.
That is going to equal to 300.
So now you've got three hatches of a hill in which this variable over here is the very same in all three
of these.
So how the hash function is going to be used over here.
So, for example, I want to fetch in the value from this variable and I want to fetch in the value
of this key value pair that is equal to Hundert.
So how am I going to do that now?
It is very simple.
All you have to do is that you've tried inputs.
Hash fetch from.
And what you have to do is that you have to use interpellation, as you know from the previous tutorial,
you had to write an E, which is the name of the variable dot fetch.
So this basically, which we have used over here is this.
So we are referring to.
This hash function, hash value beer is Abargil, so we are talking about these two values that is equal
to 100 and be equal to 200.
So we are using the fetch function on this variable.
So in the barometer's, as I told you, that I am going to write in the value I want to fetch and what
is going to be the hash value.
So let's say, as I told you, that I want to access the value is I'm going to just write an equal hild.
And I will just run it.
So we got an error that says error in the sea.
All right, so it is expected, of course, I guess.
Yes, I guess we have to come out here.
Here it is, if not less, to come over here.
So now run it.
And you can see that it says hash effect from and you got the value, which is the value of this is
what you store in this area.
That is hundreds.
So that's why that is printed.
Right.
Now, if you want to access the value for this be, all you have to do is that you have dry goods.
You have to write and hash fetch from your interpellation, then you have to write and B dot.
Fetch and the Collins, you have to ride in the value, which is, again a.
This underscored and as you can see, that it says hash fetch from Hundert, you can just ride in from
here, let's say, and you can just ride and be, let's say, here, so that it is much more visible
than what's going on over a hill.
And for the third one, you can just ride in, puts hash.
Not a call in quotation marks or hill, and you can write and catch a fish from sea going on and appellation
you can ride and sea dog fetch and hair, you can just ride in, run to school and you can see that
you go got again and try to heal.
Now, if you want to let's say it says the value for being the first guy is just right and be around
the school and you can see that you have got to get the oil.
In the second case, you don't have any other variables.
So you have to just go on with a and for the third one, you have got A, B and C. So let's say you
want to print out the value for C underscored and you've got this three under, which is the value for
this Cohill.
So that's how basically you can just print out the values from a key value pair.
That is a hash basically.
And you can just use the fetch function, which in the previous Dorel we have not used.
We have used a simple duen statement and we have just traded through the hash and printed out the key
value pair.
But in this case we have used the fetch function to print out the values for the key and it's hash.
So now what?
One more thing before we get on with this tutorial is that, for example, in this second function,
which is B equal to equal 200 Ohare, we have only got a single key value here.
So what if you want to access something that is outside its range?
For example, if you just write in B, which is not a part of this, as you can see over here, we can
just comment it out so that you can simply see what's going on over here.
So in here we are trying to access a value which is not a part of this.
So if we just run this code, it is going to generate an error message that is going to say that Gey
not found, which is B right over here.
So in here we have specified this video here, which is basically the key, because in these brackets
we are specifying the keys, as you have seen in the examples for this and this.
So when you ride in a queue, which is not a part of the school year period, that is variable B, so
when you ride in the B, which is the key, which is not a part of this, so it is going to generate
an error that is going to say not found.
That is B so not found error is basically what it is called.
So I guess that's what this vetch function, you know how to use it now.
So I guess that's it for this tutorial as well.
Thank you so much, guys, for watching.
And I'll see you guys in the next tutorial.